*   Worker machines, may be a physical machine, a VM. 
*   Every node in k8s has a representational obj attached to it.

#### Node Status

Node status contains below information.

1.  Addresses: addresses assigned to a node.
    1.  InternalIP - IP address routable only inside a cluster.
    2.  ExternalIP - IP address that can be accessed outside of the cluster.
    3.  Hostname - Hostname reported by host's kernal. Overrideble.
2.  Conditions - describe the status of a running node. It's an array of condition objects with properties, `type`, `status`, `reason`, `message` ,`lastHeartbeatTime` and `lastTransitionTime`. e.g. for conditions include `OutOfDisk`, `Ready`, `DiskPressure`, `PIDPressure` etc.
3.  Capacity and Allocatable: Capacity describes the total resource available in a node such as CPU, memory etc. Allocatable describes the resources available for k8s system ready for allocation.
4.  Info: General information about the node.

#### Management

Unlike other k8s objects, nodes are not inherently created by the system. Node objects are just a representation of an existing resource.Each time a node object is created by the system, k8s validates the node by health checking using the `metadata.name` . If necessary services are available, node is attached as part of the cluster and if not is ignored.

**Node Controller**

Node controller is a master component which manages various aspects of node's lifecycle. First is, assignment of CIDR block for the node. Second is, keeping node controller's internal list up to date with cloud provider resources. Node controller checks if the resource is still available in case of failure and takes necessary actions after that. Third is monitoring node's health. Node controller periodically checks the node status and update `NodeReady` condition of `NodeStatus` to `ConditionUnknow` in case if a node is unreachable. Later, if node is still unresponsible after the eviction period, node controller evicts all pods from the node. Health check happens every `--node-monitor-period`.