*   Objects are "record of intent", once persistant, k8s make sure the that objects exists in the system, which is the _desired state_
*   Represented in `yaml` files.
*   Representation of the state of the cluster.
*   An object has 2 parts, spec and status. Spec is user provided information about the desired state. Status is the actual state of the object at any given time and is updated by the k8s.
*   Required fields are `apiVersion`, `kind` and `metadata.`

#### Management Techniques

1.  **Imperative Command** - Works on a live object.no template and no source of record.
2.  **Imperative Object Configuration** - Works on a single template. Better managebility.
3.  **Declarative Object Configuration** - Works on a set of object templates. 

#### Names and UIDs

*   **Name** - Unique name for an object. This name is used in the kube API URLs. At any given time, no two objects can have the same name.
    *   Max length = 253 chars, allowed chars = alpha numeric values, `-` and `.`
*   **UID** - k8s provided identifier for an object. Used only by k8s system.

#### Namespaces

*   Namespaces are a way to logically divide the cluster.
*   Provides scope for names, i.e., same name can exist in a different namespace.
*   k8s has 3 namespaces by default.
    *   `default` - namespace for objects without any namespace.
    *   `kube-system` - namespace for objs created by system.
    *   `kube-public` - Used for resources that needs to be accessed by all users, including those unauthenticated. Only a convention, not a requirement.
*   Namespace can be set to a request using `--namespace` flag in `kubectl.`
*   Setting namespace preference: `kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=<namespace>`

#### Labels

*   Key-value pairs that are attached to the object and used as identifying information.
*   Label key has two segments, an optional prefix and a required name followed by a `/`.
*   Prefix must be a valid DNS subdomain. `kubernetes.io` and `k8s.io` are reserved.
*   Name contain only alphanumeric, `_` , `-` and `.` and max length is 63 chars.
*   Label value, max length is 63 chars. Allowed chars: alphanumeric, `_`, `-`, `.`.
*   **Label Selector** can be used to identify a set of objects in k8s.
*   There are 2 types of selector: **Equality based** and **Set based selectors**.
*   **Equality base** selector selects based on equality or in-equality of the label values.
    *   `env=production` selects all onjects with `env` label as `production`. Same goes with `env==production`.
    *   `env!=production` does the reverse.
*   **Set based** selector does the selection based on a set of values.
    *   `env in (test,dev)` selects objects with `env` value `test` and `dev`.
    *   `env notin (test, dev)` does the revers of the `in` and selects all objects without the `env` label.
    *   `env` selects all objects with key `env`.
    *   `!env` selects all objects without a label key `env`.
*   Selectors can be mixed using a comma spaerater. 
*   Selectors is applied to an API call using `labelSelector` query string.
*   In `kubectl` same in acheived using a `-l` argument.
*   Inside an obj template, `selector` property can be combined with `matchLabels` or `matchExpression` to select desired set of labels.

#### Annotations

*   key-value pair. Unlike labels, annotations are non-identifying information and can be used to record metadat.
*   Same syntactical implication as labels.

#### Field Selectors

*   Used to selects objs using resource fields.
*   Supported fields: all objects supports fields `metadata.name` and `metadata.namespace`. Other supported fields depends of available field in the obj (both spec and status)
*   Supported opertators: `=`, `==`, `!=`. Chaining can be acheived by saperating multiple operation using `,`.
*   `--field-selector` argument is used with `kubectl`..