A pod is a basic execution unit in k8s. The smallest and simplest unit k8s object model. Pod is the smallest deployable object in k8s. A pod is an emphameral, disposable entities in k8s. Pod encapsulates an applications containers, storage resources, an IP address and configurations on how to run the containers. A pod can either have a single or multiple containers. Each pod is meant to run an instance of an application. Replication can be used to horizontally scale the application, thus k8s launches multiple pods and distribute the traffic among them.

Pods provides two kinds of shared resources to the container.

**Network**

Each Pod gets assigned a unique IP. Every container in the Pods shares the IP and network ports.  Containers inside a Pod can communicate using `localhost`. Containers should coordinate how they use the network while communicating to external entities.

**Storage**

A Pod can specify a set of shared volumes. These volume are accessible by the containers inside a Pod. Shared storage provides a persistant storage in case some of the containers needs to be restarted.

Pods donot self heal themselfs. A Pod will not survive either the scheduled node failure or an eviction. Thus a Pod is not recommended to schedule as a standalone entity. Controllers like `Deployment`, `StatefulSet` and `DeamonSet` can manage pods enabling replication, roll out and self healing capabilities at a cluster level.

**Communication between Containers in same Pods**

Containers inside a Pod share the same IP and port space. Containers can find each other using `localhost`. Standard IPC (Inter Process Communication) techniques SystemV semisphere or POSIX shared memory can also be utilised for the same.

**Terminiation of Pods**

Since Pod represent a running process in a node, it is important to allow those processes to gracefuly terminate than forcefully killing and ensuring the Pod eventually deletes. When k8s receives a request to terminate a Pod, a `TERM` signal is sent to the Pod to allow the clean up. Once the grace period is over, a `KILL` signal will be sent to the process and then the Pod will be deleted from the apiserver. If kubelet or container manager is restarted while attempting to restart a Pod, the same will be tried again.

**Privillaged mode for Containers inside a Pod**

Any container who has the `privillaged` flag on security context set to true, the process inside a container will receive almost same privillage as the processes outside the container in case of linux capabilities like network device manipulation and device access etc.

**Pod Phase**

`phase` is a member of the `PodStatus` object. Pod phase privdes a high level summary of where is the Pod in terms of the Pod lifecycle. Below are the possible phases.

1.  Pending - Pod has been accepted by k8s, but one or more containers images has not been created. Includes the time before Pods being scheduled as well as the download of images.
2.  Running - The Pod has been bound to a node and all of the containers are created. Atleast one container is still running, or is the phase of starting or restarting.
3.  Succeeded - all containers in the Pod have terminated success, and will not be restarted.
4.  Failed - all containers are terminated and atleast one of the container terminated failure. either returning a non-zero error code or is terminated by the system.
5.  Unknown - state of the pod can not be obtained, typically due to communication errors with the host of the Pod.

**Pod Conditions**

`PodStatus` has an array of five `PodConditions` , which specifies whether the Pod has passed a perticular state. Conditions are:

1.  `PodScheduled` - pod has been scheduled to a node
2.  `Ready` - able to serve requests and should be added to a load balancing pools of all matching servers
3.  `Initialized` - all init containers have started successfully
4.  `Unschedulable` - scheduler can not schedule the Pod right now due to lack of resources or other reasons
5.  `ContainersReady` - all containers in the Pod are ready

Each condition has six fields of details in it which includes, `lastProbeTime` (when condition was last probed), `lastTransitionTime` , `message`, `reason`, `status` and `type`. `type` conatins one of the above five condition.

**Pod Probes**

Pod probes are the daignostics performed on a container by k8s. To run a probe, k8s call a handler that is implemented by the container. There are 3 types of handlers:

1.  `ExecAction` - this handler executes a perticular command on the container. success or failure depends on the exit code of the command.
2.  `TCPSocketAction` - checks whether a perticular port is available for the Pod IP. Success if the port is open.
3.  `HTTPGetAction` - performs an HTTP GET action towards container's IP address on a specified port and path. Success if the response status code is grater than 200 and less than 400.

k8s can optionaly perform an react to 2 kind of probes.

1.  `livenessProbe` - Indicates whether a container is running. If the probe fails, container is killed and container is subjected to the restart policy. If a container doesn't implement this prompt, default is `Success`. This prompt should be used if a container is desired to be killed or restarted in case of a probe failure. If the container can fail on its own during an issue, k8s automatically replaces the container, no need of a probe. 
2.  `readinessProbe` - Indicates whether container is ready to recieve requests. If this probe fails, endpoint controller removes Pod's IP address from the endpoints of all Services that matches this Pod. Default state before the initial delay is `Failure`, if a container doesn't implement this probe, default is `Success`. If a container has a longer bootstrap actions such as loading large data, specify a `readinessProbe` . This can be also used to mark a container is under maintanance. A probe that checks the readiness of the endpoint can be specified in order to implement this.

**Container States**

A container has 3 possible states.

1.  `Waiting` - Default state of a container. A container in waiting state still runs its required operations like pulling images, applying secrets etc. A message and reason about the state is provided for more information on the state.
2.  `Running` - Container is running/executing without any issues. `postStart` hook isexecuted immediatly after entering this state. `PodStatus` provides a `Started` property to this state which mentiones the time when the container was started.
3.  `Terminated` - Indicates that container has finished it's execution. A `preStop` hook executed just before entering this state. Reason, exit code, start and stop time are available with this state.

**Restart Policy**

`PosSpec` has a field `restartPolicy` which can have any of these values, `Always`, `OnFailure` and `Never`. Restart policy is applied to all containers in the Pod. _\[check various restart policy actions\]_

**PodReadinessGate**

`ReadinessGate` is a field in `PosSpec` to specify additional condtions to be evaluated for Pod readiness. If k8s can nt find such condition in `status.conditions` field, status of the container defaults to `False`.